Update `History of osu! 2016` (#5859)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/History_of_osu!/2016/en.md

## January

**The ability to see live previews of a selected skin in the options menu was re-added to osu! on 28 January 2016 after having been removed for two years.** The feature was initially removed in 2014 due to an options menu refresh in 2014 [[1,2]][r].

## February

**Two new items were added to the osu!store in February: the osu!mug, and the osu!go.** The former being a typical coffee mug with custom osu! designs on it ($15 USD at launch); while the latter was a USB stick that was preloaded with the osu! client, capable of playing osu! directly off of it ($50 USD at launch) [[6,7]][r]. <!--dates missing-->

![](img/osu-mug-osu-go.jpg "The chibi pippi osu!mug (left) and the osu!go (right) [[6]][r]")

**On 13 February 2016, a new rule change that attempted to change the then current beatmap difficulty spread criteria in ranked beatmaps sparked massive backlash from the beatmapping community** [[3]][r].

> While much of the response from the community regarded their disapproval for the new rule change (which attempted to limit the amount of difficulties allowed in a single ranked beatmap), a much larger discussion was started that centred around many users' discontent towards the osu! staff due to what they felt was a lack of transparency and player representation regarding then recent changes in the BAT (Beatmap Appreciation Team) as well as the creation of the RCC (Ranking Criteria Council) [[3]][r].

Author: use of "regarded" was intentional here; "was" makes it sound like the rest of the sentence is going to talk about the response that was approving of the change

> While much of the response from the community regarded their disapproval for the new rule change (which attempted to limit the amount of difficulties allowed in a single ranked beatmap), a much larger discussion was started that centred around many users' discontent towards the osu! staff due to what they felt was a lack of transparency and player representation regarding then recent changes in the BAT (Beatmap Appreciation Team) as well as the creation of the RCC (Ranking Criteria Council) [[3]][r].

Reviewer: right, you could use regard, but not in that way

```suggestion
While much of the community regarded the new rule change in disapproval, as it attempted to limit the amount of difficulties allowed in a single ranked beatmap, a much larger discussion was started that centred around many users' discontent towards the osu! staff due to what they felt was a lack of transparency and player representation regarding then recent changes in the BAT (Beatmap Appreciation Team) as well as the creation of the RCC (Ranking Criteria Council) [[3]][r].
```

> While much of the response from the community regarded their disapproval for the new rule change (which attempted to limit the amount of difficulties allowed in a single ranked beatmap), a much larger discussion was started that centred around many users' discontent towards the osu! staff due to what they felt was a lack of transparency and player representation regarding then recent changes in the BAT (Beatmap Appreciation Team) as well as the creation of the RCC (Ranking Criteria Council) [[3]][r].

Author: I realize that if you have to explain a sentence to someone, it probably isn't a good sentence, although I was trying to use "regarded" as in "concern" or "refer to". I'll just use the first suggestion but with parentheses to avoid confusion

```suggestion
While much of the response from the community was in disapproval of the new rule change (which attempted to limit the amount of difficulties allowed in a single ranked beatmap), a much larger discussion was started that centred around many users' discontent towards the osu! staff due to what they felt was a lack of transparency and player representation regarding then recent changes in the BAT (Beatmap Appreciation Team) as well as the creation of the RCC (Ranking Criteria Council) [[3]][r].
```

Additionally, in response to the backlash from the community, Ephemeral promised that Ranking Criteria changes would be temporarily suspended and that the osu! team would commit to being more transparent in their processes:

> So, going forward, we aim to be entirely transparent with our thought processes leading up to the big decisions that impact everyone in the community.
>
> ...
>
> It is our hope that by placing the events leading up to the birth of these decisions into the public view, we can work together to find out the best way of moving forward from here, and to make sure that something like this does not happen again.
>
> We have suspended all movement in the Ranking Criteria changes for (at very least) the remainder of the week, and will use this time to gather your feedback and our thoughts on how we may best proceed from now on.

> — Ephemeral, "Meet Ephemeral!" [[4,5]][r]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
—Ephemeral, "Meet Ephemeral!" [[4,5]][r]
```

## March

> **On the very first day of March, Ephemeral created the first in a series of posts on peppy's blog that would become the "Meeting Notes", which served as an attempt to provide more transparency between the osu! team and the community.** In these posts, Ephemeral would summarize the main objectives, ideas, and thoughts that the team had towards the future into digestible bullet points. The main thoughts and objectives described in this first post were primarily geared towards improving the team and their communication across the board (with emphasis on beatmapping and modding) [[8]][r].

Author: ```suggestion
**On the very first day of March, Ephemeral created the first in a series of posts on peppy's blog that would become the "Meeting Notes", which served as an attempt to provide more transparency between the osu! team and the community.** In these posts, Ephemeral would summarise the main objectives, ideas, and thoughts the team had towards the future into digestible bullet points. This first post was primarily geared towards improving the team and their communication across the board (with emphasis on beatmapping and modding) [[8]][r].
```

## April

> **The modding panel on the new osu! website (new.ppy.sh) was set live for public testing on 11 April 2016**. However, the testing was only available for [Ice - L2 - Ascension : Act 2 (Liberation) (LordRaika)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/123760) and [Camellia - overcomplexification (ProfessionalBox)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/351408). According to [Loctav](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/71366), the main idea of the panel was to split problems into separate posts and then discuss them individually for easier tracking of issues and such as part of the steps towards implementing the long awaited "Modding V2" [[9]][r].<!--wayback snapshot broken-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The modding panel on the new osu! website (new.ppy.sh) was set live for public testing on 11 April 2016**. However, the testing was only available for [Ice - L2 - Ascension : Act 2 (Liberation) (LordRaika)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/123760) and [Camellia - overcomplexification (ProfessionalBox)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/351408). According to [Loctav](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/71366), the main idea of the panel was to split problems into separate posts and then discuss them individually for easier tracking of issues and such as part of the steps towards implementing the long-awaited "Modding V2" [[9]][r].<!--wayback snapshot broken-->
```

**New medal designs were added into osu! on 14 April 2016**, meant to be more in-line with the "[osu!next](https://osunext.tumblr.com/about "Tumblr")" design philosophy being used in osu!lazer and new website [[10,11]][r]

![](img/new-medal-design-2016.jpg "Medal unlock graphic showcasing the new design that would appear in-game [[12]][r]")

**The first images of osu!mania's official mascot, Maria, were posted for the first time on 20 April 2016.** In celebration of Maria's introduction to the community, a brand new medal named "A meganekko approaches" (obtained by achieving 100 combo on any beatmap in osu!mania) was added to the game alongside a sprite of Maria being used in combo milestone bursts in osu!mania [[13]][r].

![](img/maria.jpg "Official artwork of Maria in the her announcement newspost [[13]][r]")

> **The QAT (Quality Assurance Team) and their involvement in the beatmapping and modding process was significantly changed on 25 April 2016.** The changes made were described by [Loctav](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/71366) in a forum post at the time:

Author: afaik both are acceptable, just prefer singular "process"

> **The QAT (Quality Assurance Team) and their involvement in the beatmapping and modding process was significantly changed on 25 April 2016.** The changes made were described by [Loctav](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/71366) in a forum post at the time:

Reviewer: it's only singular if "mapping and modding" is treated as a single term, so, i guess?

also the "were" refers to "qat and their involvement" being plural

> **The QAT (Quality Assurance Team) and their involvement in the beatmapping and modding process was significantly changed on 25 April 2016.** The changes made were described by [Loctav](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/71366) in a forum post at the time:

Author: actually, yeah, you are right. "was" sounds a bit weird now that i think abt it

> Going forward, the QAT will no longer be obligated to check every qualified beatmap for quality checks. Instead, they will be reactive in nature, responding to and addressing reports made by members of the community about a map’s quality.
>
> We want to return the responsibility for mapping quality and content to the community at large, rather than delegating it to a small group of people to enforce. We believe this change will achieve this.
>
> ...
>
> Going forward, we will also be releasing a Code of Conduct regarding Mapping and Modding affairs. This will ensure that there will be a base level of respect in the talks surrounding these issues, as they have been prone to problems in the past. Ultimately, all parties involved in the ranking/mapping process have the same ultimate goal - to get cool stuff ranked and available for play as quickly as possible with as little issue as possible.

> — Loctav, "Changes to the Quality Assurance Team" [[14]][r]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
—Loctav, "Changes to the Quality Assurance Team" [[14]][r]
```

Reception of the community towards this change was overall mostly positive. However, some users did have concerns as to whether or not this change would cause some beatmaps to become ignored without a guaranteed mod by a QAT member [[14]][r].

## May

> **The very first osu! remix contest began on 6 May 2016.** "osu!remix" was a new contest that challenged participants to make a remix of the song "[circles!](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/circles "SoundCloud")" by [nekodex](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102). The grand prize winner (chosen by osu! staff) would have their remix featured in osu! along with $250 USD in osu!store credit, a profile badge, and an official beatmapping contest featuring the remix. The secondary winner (chosen by community vote) would receive $50 USD in osu!store credit. The deadline for the contest was set to be 9 July 2016 (00:00 UTC) [[15]][r].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The very first osu! remix contest began on 6 May 2016.** "osu!remix" was a new contest that challenged participants to make a remix of the song [*circles!*](https://soundcloud.com/nekodex/circles) by [nekodex](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102). The grand prize winner (chosen by osu! staff) would have their remix featured in osu! along with $250 USD in osu!store credit, a profile badge, and an official beatmapping contest featuring the remix. The secondary winner (chosen by community vote) would receive $50 USD in osu!store credit. The deadline for the contest was set to be 9 July 2016 (00:00 UTC) [[15]][r].
```

> **A request for "early bird contributors" was made by [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2) on 18 May 2016.** The request specifically asked for individuals with knowledge in [C#](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_Sharp_(programming_language) "Wikipedia") 6.0 and enough free time and willingness to help clean-up and refactor large areas of osu!(lazer)'s codebase [[16]][r]. peppy also later asked for "reinforcements" in the form of additional contributors familiar with [Laravel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laravel "Wikipedia") and [React](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/React_(JavaScript_library) "Wikipedia") [[17]][r].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**A request for "early bird contributors" was made by [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2) on 18 May 2016.** The request specifically asked for individuals with knowledge in [C#](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_Sharp_(programming_language)) 6.0 and enough free time and willingness to help clean-up and refactor large areas of osu!(lazer)'s codebase [[16]][r]. peppy also later asked for "reinforcements" in the form of additional contributors familiar with [Laravel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laravel) and [React](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/React_(JavaScript_library)) [[17]][r].
```

## June

> **After nine months, the results for the first [Mapping With Rewards](https://blog.ppy.sh/post/129936251068/mapping-with-rewards-sep-2015 "ppy blog") contest were released on 1 June 2016.** There were three winners that were chosen in the contest—one for each song: [monstrata](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2706438) (won [Manic](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/361175#osu/793620)), [alacat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/869782#osu) (won [House With Legs](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/360680#osu/793357)), [Guy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/91738) (won [Dovregubben's Hall](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/360950#osu/793190)). In addition to having their beatmaps bundled into the osu! installer, they also each received $50 USD in osu!store credit, and a unique profile badge as a prize [[18]][r].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**After nine months, the results for the first [Mapping With Rewards](https://blog.ppy.sh/post/129936251068/mapping-with-rewards-sep-2015) contest were released on 1 June 2016.** There were three winners chosen in the contest—one for each song: [monstrata](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2706438) (won [Manic](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/361175#osu/793620)), [alacat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/869782#osu) (won [House With Legs](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/360680#osu/793357)), [Guy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/91738) (won [Dovregubben's Hall](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/360950#osu/793190)). In addition to having their beatmaps bundled into the osu! installer, they also each received $50 USD in osu!store credit, and a unique profile badge as a prize [[18]][r].
```

**The osu!dev Discord server was released to the public on 9 June 2016.** As announced on Twitter, the purpose of the server was to replace the public Slack team that was previously in place due to its lack of moderation controls. Anyone with the link to the Discord server would be able to join and follow along with osu! development, although they would not be able to speak in text channels unless specifically given access to by a moderator [[19,20]][r].

## July

> **A new contest challenging the community to create a new osu!taiko mascot design that would replace pippidon, the old mascot, was announced and began on 18 July 2016.** The winner of the contest would have their design formally accepted as the official osu!taiko mascot, receive an osu!artist forum title, 12 months of osu!supporter, and $50 USD in osu!store credit. The set deadline for entries was 16 August 2016 (00:00 UTC) [[21]][r].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**A new contest challenging the community to create a new osu!taiko mascot design that would replace pippidon, the old mascot, was announced and began on 18 July 2016.** The winner of the contest would have their design formally accepted as the official osu!taiko mascot, receive an **osu!artist** user title, 12 months of osu!supporter, and $50 USD in osu!store credit. The set deadline for entries was 16 August 2016 (00:00 UTC) [[21]][r].
```

**Changes towards how prizes were awarded for tournaments were made and announced on 24 July 2016.** Due to the increasing amount of community-run tournaments being started around that time, the osu! team felt that a system of credits that could be exchanged for osu!supporter tags would be more helpful and easier to keep track of for tournament planners and players. The credits awarded to contestants would be kept track of in a provided Google Sheet [[22]][r].<!-- Google Sheet unavailable due to locked forum thread: https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/481791 -->

## August

**A new set of "Hush-Hush" medals arrived on 17 August 2016** and were gradually rolled out over the following day. Users could tell if a new medal was obtainable in osu! if it was visible on the new website (new.ppy.sh) [[23]][r]. The medals that were announced to be added are shown below.

![](img/hush-hush-medals.jpg "A visual list of all the new Hush-Hush medals added [[23]][r]")

**Results for the first "osu!remix" contest were formally announced on 29 August 2016**:

> | Placement | Track | Artist | Prize |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Placing | Track | Artist | Prize(s) |
```

| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-- |

> | **Staff vote** | [HDHR](https://soundcloud.com/billiummoto/hdhr "SoundCloud") | [BilliumMoto](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3862471) | Track featured as an official contest beatmap, $250 USD osu!store credit, unique profile badge |
> | **First place community vote** | HDHR | BilliumMoto | N/A |
> | **Second place community vote** | [circles! (黒皇帝 Remix)](https://soundcloud.com/dialgadu77/circles-remix "SoundCloud") | [Sayaka-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/398275) | $50 USD osu!store credit |
> | **Third place community vote** | [circles! (happy30 Remix)](https://soundcloud.com/happy30/circles-happy30-remix "SoundCloud") | [happy30](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/27767) | Honourable mention |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Staff vote** | [HDHR](https://soundcloud.com/billiummoto/hdhr) | [BilliumMoto](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3862471) | Track featured as an official contest beatmap, $250 USD osu!store credit, unique profile badge |
| **First place community vote** | HDHR | BilliumMoto | N/A |
| **Second place community vote** | [circles! (黒皇帝 Remix)](https://soundcloud.com/dialgadu77/circles-remix) | [Sayaka-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/398275) | $50 USD osu!store credit |
| **Third place community vote** | [circles! (happy30 Remix)](https://soundcloud.com/happy30/circles-happy30-remix) | [happy30](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/27767) | Honourable mention |
```

Although BilliumMoto won first place in the community vote, the prize for the community vote winner ($50 USD in osu!store credit) was awarded to the runner-up, Sayaka, as BilliumMoto had already won the staff vote and it's prizes [[24]][r].

## September

**Results for the community vote on the osu!taiko mascot contest were formally announced on 21 September 2016**:

![](img/taiko-mascot-winners-community.jpg "The three community vote winners of the osu!taiko mascot contest: Aiko (left), Alisa (middle), and Tama (right)")

> | Placement | Character | Artist | Prize |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Placing | Character | Artist | Prize(s) |
```

| :-- | :-: | :-: | :-- |

> | **First place** | Aiko | [JMC](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/774010) | "osu!artist" forum title, 12 months of osu!supporter, $50 USD osu!store credit |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **First place** | Aiko | [JMC](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/774010) | **osu!artist** user title, 12 months of osu!supporter, $50 USD osu!store credit |
```

## October

**The GMT (Global Moderation Team) began taking applications for the first time in its history on 15 October 2016.** Previously, members of the GMT would be inducted via process of nomination or recommendation by other GMT members. However, due to a recent increase in demand for more members, the team decided that it would need to reach out to the community more:

> Over the past few months, we've been trying to get more in touch with the community as a whole. As a part of these efforts, we are now accepting applications from anyone who wishes to join the Global Moderation Team.
>
> ...
>
> As osu!next draws closer, we'll be making more efforts to get the community involved again. A big part of the rework involves not only redesigning the website and game client, but also how the community operates as well. We're very big on letting the community guide the course of the game, and it is our hope that by expanding the team with fresh new faces and outlooks, we'll be better able to achieve this going forward.

> - [shARPII](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/776257), "GMT Applications Now Open" [[27]][r]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
—[shARPII](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/776257), "GMT Applications Now Open" [[27]][r]
```

> The applications that were given out at the time were different from BN (Beatmap Nominator) applications in that simply filling out a form with "good answers" would not guarantee a position: users who were of interest to the GMT would be spoken to by the GMT and further inspection would follow from there. Additionally, there was not a limited number of "spots" available for the GMT. If the team felt someone was qualified for the position, they would add them, regardless of the amount of current members [[27]][r].

Author: Use of a colon was intentional here; used to indicate that the following clause is explaining/elaborating on the former

> **Open testing for the "Loved" ranking status for beatmaps was formally started and announced on 17 October 2016.** The category, intended for beatmaps held in very high regard by the community at large, allowed beatmaps to have official online leaderboards, with the caveat that they would not grant users performance points on any plays. The purpose of this was to highlight beatmaps that may not have met ranking criteria to still be given online leaderboards and a more "official" recognition for their beloved status in the community [[28]][r].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Open testing for the "Loved" ranking status for beatmaps was formally started and announced on 17 October 2016.** The category, intended for beatmaps held in very high regard by the community at large, allowed beatmaps to have official online leaderboards, with the caveat that they would not grant users performance points for any plays. The purpose of this was to highlight beatmaps that may not have met ranking criteria to still be given online leaderboards and a more "official" recognition for their beloved status in the community [[28]][r].
```

> **Open testing for the "Loved" ranking state for beatmaps was formally started and announced on 17 October 2016.** The category, intended for beatmaps held in very high regard by the community at large, gave beatmaps in it official online leaderboards, with the caveat that they would not grant users performance points on any plays. The purpose of this was to allow for beatmaps that may not have met ranking criteria to still be given online leaderboards and a more "official" recognition for their beloved status in the community [[28]][r].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Open testing for the "Loved" ranking status for beatmaps was formally started and announced on 17 October 2016.** The category, intended for beatmaps held in very high regard by the community at large, allowed beatmaps to have official online leaderboards, with the caveat that they would not grant users performance points on any plays. The purpose of this was to highlight beatmaps that may not have met ranking criteria to still be given online leaderboards and a more "official" recognition for their beloved status in the community [[28]][r].
```

> In its [announcement newspost](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-10-17-here-comes-the-love), a set of pre-selected beatmaps were given the Loved status that served as the first ever beatmaps to be Loved:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In its [announcement newspost](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-10-17-here-comes-the-love), a set of pre-selected beatmaps were given the Loved status:
```

- [mocchie - Nyan Nyan Drive (D: (caren_sk)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/106318)
- [The Quick Brown Fox - PACEMAKER (Kyshiro)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/180771)
- [DM Ashura - deltaMAX (rustbell)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/18315)
- [Omoi - Snow Drive (Arieeru)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/291154)
- [The Quick Brown Fox - Big Money (Blue Dragon)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/293705)
- [Nakajima Megumi - TRY UNITE! (aran Remix) (lahphnya)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/319815)
- [Kitsune^2 - Free (Starrodkirby86)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/342207)
- [xi - Garyou Tensei (fartownik)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/344371)
- [tokiwa yuu - shounen ripples (lahphnya)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/356426)
- [ZiGZaG HACKER - V^3 (Hello World) (rustbell)](https://oszu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/365053)
- [Fleshgod Apocalypse - The Deceit / The Violation (Mazzerin)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/367631)
- [sHimaU - Slotcore is Dead (Zapy)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/37065)

> - [DJ Mass MAD Izm* - SHAKUNETSU Beach Side Bunny (rustbell)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/409345)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DJ Mass MAD Izm\* - SHAKUNETSU Beach Side Bunny (rustbell)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/409345)
```

- [Blue Stahli - Anti You (thatguy0815)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/42567)
- [Cardboard Box - The Limit Does Not Exist (Blue Dragon)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/429469)
- [Seether - Fake It ([Dellirium])](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/48738)
- [Vektor - Recharging the Void (Mazzerin)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/489236)

> Despite the list of first additions, however, users were reminded that the new ranking state was still in "open testing", and that the team still was not sure of how the specifics of getting a beatmap into Loved should work. Many different ideas for this were thrown around, although the first to be tested was a system of weekly community voting from a pool of ten maps chosen based on a "variety of factors" [[28,29]][r].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Despite the first additions, users were reminded that the new ranking status was still in "open testing", and that the team still was not sure of how the specifics of getting a beatmap into Loved should work. Many different ideas for this were thrown around, although the first to be tested was a system of weekly community voting from a pool of ten maps chosen based on a "variety of factors" [[28,29]][r].
```

---

## References

1. [osu!weekly #47](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-02-09-osuweekly-47)
2. [28 January 2016 changelog](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/cuttingedge/20160128)
3. [Mapset and Spread Restructure (Proposed)](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/420223)

> 4. [MEET EPHEMERAL!](https://blog.ppy.sh/post/139478794378/meet-ephemeral "ppy blog")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. [MEET EPHEMERAL!](https://blog.ppy.sh/post/139478794378/meet-ephemeral)
```

> 5. [Timeline of Events Surrounding Recent Changes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VlFUIte8ho4tssRCucSBt96nTVAhsCLfJZcFVgzHjuk/edit "Google Docs")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. [Timeline of Events Surrounding Recent Changes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VlFUIte8ho4tssRCucSBt96nTVAhsCLfJZcFVgzHjuk/edit)
```

6. [osu!weekly #48](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-02-16-osuweekly-48)
7. [osu!go not worth it?](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/425108)

> 8. [2016-02 MEETING NOTES](https://blog.ppy.sh/post/140259300353/2016-02-meeting-notes "ppy blog")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. [2016-02 MEETING NOTES](https://blog.ppy.sh/post/140259300353/2016-02-meeting-notes)
```

9. [Modding v2: Modding Panel - Feedback Thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/442285)
10. [osu!weekly #57](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-04-20-osuweekly-57)
11. [15 April 2016 changelog](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/cuttingedge/20160415)

> 12. [osu! | How medals looks like? (Animations) | Achievements 20/04/2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sdGe-Gv38Yw "YouTube")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. [osu! | How medals looks like? (Animations) | Achievements 20/04/2016](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sdGe-Gv38Yw)
```

13. [Meet Maria - osu!mania's new mascot!](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-04-20-meet-maria-osumanias-new-mascot)
14. [Changes to the Quality Assurance Team](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/447417)
15. [osu! "circles!" Remix Contest](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-05-06-osu-circles-remix-contest)

> 16. [EARLY-BIRD CONTRIBUTORS](https://blog.ppy.sh/post/144539340703/early-bird-contributors "ppy blog")
> 17. [31 May 2016 (18:22 UTC) Tweet](https://twitter.com/ppy/status/737529593184149504 "Twitter")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16. [EARLY-BIRD CONTRIBUTORS](https://blog.ppy.sh/post/144539340703/early-bird-contributors)
17. [31 May 2016 (18:22 UTC) Tweet](https://twitter.com/ppy/status/737529593184149504)
```

> 18. [Mapping With Rewards #1 - Bounties Complete!](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-06-01-mapping-with-rewards-1-bounties-complete)'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
18. [Mapping With Rewards #1 - Bounties Complete!](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2016-06-01-mapping-with-rewards-1-bounties-complete)
```

> 19. [9 June 2016 (3:18 PM UTC)) Tweet](https://twitter.com/ppy/status/741107246965235713 "Twitter")

Reviewer: these have been removed since https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/6060

```suggestion
19. [9 June 2016 (3:18 PM UTC)) Tweet](https://twitter.com/ppy/status/741107246965235713)
```
